Chrissy has many tabs (😂) 

 

Data sources 

At least 3 or 4 major sources of where you find spatial data 

Public BC, DFO, CDC, reports - Artic grayling 

 

DFO - SARA listed species 

CDC - some spatial data for when CDC staff had observation - mostly terrestrial 

Reports - cosewic, could be bc management, bc data knowledge centre 

IUCN  red list assessment? 

Nature serve - might have some distribution data 

Inaturalist = data on location 

 

Fish ranges -  

FISS data - all fish points - missing attribute data = conservation data, SAR species provincially?  

No conservation data 

SAR visualsied would need atribute data for this  

BC list, COSEWIC, SARA, BC list 

 

BC species and ecosystem explorer https://a100.gov.bc.ca/pub/eswp/search.do;jsessionid=AD09E08623A96D16ED090E4BCE8FDCC4?method=reset 

 

3 levels:  

Blue and red listed species CDC 

Fish assessed by COSEWIC  

DFO or ECCC 

 

Problems of scale 

Mapping is species level and conservation is population level 

DFO has populations 

COSEWIC has populations in reports, but doesn't share the spatial data publicly 

Province is just mapping fish 

Separate spatial processing that needs to be done 

Spatial extract - where are the relevant points? 

CDC non masked data may have something in there worth looking at 

This is the biggest problem 

Not listed unit or population 

 

Area of occupancy = where the live within the total extent  

 

 

First distribution data  

Then: find report and get polygons 

 

CDC map locations  

BC CDC search - shows a column that says they have mapped locations 

Non-sensitive and there are also confidential locations too 

Confidential - could be contact in the future - SAR species in the future but not species specific information 

Do they have their own maps or are they taken from SARA? 

 

DFO data is easy to pull in  

CDC - would be worth following up on as we get data 

 

Plan B = access layer, list of species concerned about - see how many CDC  polygons we have for those - name in DFO and CDC polygon - refer to DFO - patchy polygons from DFO 

 

DFO = then CDC, filter CDC that we want = spatial select = two tables and polygons, and are they the same, delete CDC if so.  

Critical habitat - do the same - remove from CDC if they are the same  

Human involved - check if Locations are done - delete and replacement for DFO so there is a track of it 

 

Attribute data 

Needs a join in the future to get attribute data  - whole species vs population or DU 

Small scale watershed - spatial join with watershed and named polygon - waterbody ID -  

Knowing which watersheds are important - CDC - link between SAR and watersheds - would be in each COSEWIC report and each species report from CDC - verbally, but not anything tabulated (public anyway) 

 

 

Distribution 

Points vs polygons - conversion? Want points and polygons 

Distribution - confirmed points only 

Unconfirmed points - stuff that is not done by experts 

Anything 30 years old is not useable 

SARA DFO 

critical habitat  

polygons, or aspatial features listed 

Actualdistribution 

COSEWIC  

area of occupancy 

AIA - convex polygon (full distributions) 

 

To see: 

Confirmed vs unconfirmed 

Distribution vs modelled distribution, vs critical habitat 

 

CDC non-sensitive layer may have other sources, which may not be what we want 

Unique occurrences that are not in the DFO data - only add those (polygons) 

Combined a few things - terrestrial and aquatic 

Spatial overlay assessment, non-sensitive and masked 

Maybe include it… unsure as of yet 

Masked - future time 

 

Where is the data coming from? 

 

Finally: 

Soup of points = what does this soup of points give that is different from the polygons - what are the points for?  

Helps to target monitoring = points help to get to specific places - for bull trout for instance - watershed - grab bags, funding applications,  

Make more informed decisions for monitoring etc. 

Points - presence (confirmed), presence (old/not expert?) , non-detect point (it was not found there) = this is like absence data 

  

 

Next steps: 

ID what species we have information for 

Swiss cheese method - delete from CDC when we have DFO 

What have we got and not got? 

What data needs to be got from COSEWIC 

Use fish ranges - then overlay with discrete watersheds - extract that range from the dataset 

 

 

 

 

Additional notes from Chris (probably superfluous!) 

 

(CDC search tool: https://a100.gov.bc.ca/pub/eswp/search.do;jsessionid=AD09E08623A96D16ED090E4BCE8FDCC4?method=reset) 

  

Data to plot: 

Polygons: 

DFO SARA polygons + DFO critical habitat polygons 

Aquatic species in non-sensitive CDC species-at-risk (unique occs that aren't captured in DFO) 

FISS_FISH_RANGES (if it's good) 

Points:

FDIS points (would need the following fields joined on: conservation status, DU/population, which are hard to find because those polygons only exist for species elevated to SARA status). 

CDC non-masked points (might have some columns describing population…? Yes for something like Lake Chub - Atlin Warm Springs Population and Lake Chub - Liard Springs) 

  

** NOTE: CDC unmasked POLYGONS (and FISS_FISH_RANGES_SP) could be used as spatial overlay: 

Filter for ray-finned fishes 

Delete polygons/polygon areas that are already described in DFO 

Whatever is left and unique to CDC unmasked polygons, we use as cookie cutting shapes for soup of fish occurrence points (e.g. in FDIS), those points within the polygons will then be added to the map. 
Note that these points can be one of three types: confirmed presence, unconfirmed presence (e.g. too old), or confirmed ABSENCE. 